README.md, before:

# Custom Logger

[![Gem Version](https://badge.fury.io/rb/customlogger.png)](http://badge.fury.io/rb/customlogger)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/SaimonL/CustomLogger.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/SaimonL/CustomLogger)

Custom logger allows you to log you're debug information to an html file so you can
view them in much more easier way. All you need to do is include the gem in the
Gemfile and then use it directly CustomLogger.

## Compatable

CustomLogger is compatible with Ruby 1.9 and above. As for Rails 3.x and up.
You should not be using or have Ruby 1.8 installed for obvious reasons.

## Installation

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

```ruby
group :development, :test do
  [...]
  gem 'customlogger'
  [...]
end
```
Keep in mind that "[...]" means that there may or may not be other gems there.

And then execute:

    $ bundle

Or install it yourself as:

    $ gem install customlogger

## Usage

Custom Logger is very easy to use. Just use the module 'CustomLogger' anywhere
and log the message in a nice friendly colorful html page view. All the logging
follows pattern of message input first followed by optional title. Take a look
at the examples below.

![Example Screenshot](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/SaimonL/repo-assets/master/customlogger/all.png)

#### Log error

    CustomLogger.error 'This is an error message'
    CustomLogger.error = 'This is an error message'
    CustomLogger.error 'This is an error message', 'Error Title'
    CustomLogger.error('This is an error message', 'Error Title')

![Error Screenshot](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/SaimonL/repo-assets/master/customlogger/error.png)

#### Log warning

    CustomLogger.warning 'This is a warning message'
    CustomLogger.warning = 'This is a warning message'
    CustomLogger.warning 'This is a warning message', 'Warning Title'
    CustomLogger.warning('This is a warning message', 'Warning Title')

![Warning Screenshot](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/SaimonL/repo-assets/master/customlogger/warning.png)

#### Log debug

    CustomLogger.debug 'This is a debug message'
    CustomLogger.debug = 'This is a debug message'
    CustomLogger.debug 'This is a debug message', 'Debug Title'
    CustomLogger.debug('This is a debug message', 'Debug Title')

![Debug Screenshot](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/SaimonL/repo-assets/master/customlogger/debug.png)

#### Log info

    CustomLogger.info 'This is an info message'
    CustomLogger.info = 'This is an info message'
    CustomLogger.info 'This is an info message', 'Info Title'
    CustomLogger.info('This is an info message', 'Info Title')

![Info Screenshot](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/SaimonL/repo-assets/master/customlogger/info.png)

#### Log raw

Keep in mind that raw means that no formatting is applied so if the output
is 1000 characters horizontal without any line break then that is what you
will see. Basically it is inside of a 'pre' html tag.

    CustomLogger.raw 'This is a raw message'
    CustomLogger.raw = 'This is a raw message'
    CustomLogger.raw 'This is a raw message', 'Raw Title'
    CustomLogger.raw('This is a raw message', 'Raw Title')

![Raw Screenshot](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/SaimonL/repo-assets/master/customlogger/raw.png)

#### ActiveRecord Support

CustomLogger supports ActiveRecord if you use ActiveRecord. To log ActiveRecord
just use raw logger. For an example:

    CustomLogger.raw(User.first, 'This is User.first')

![ActiveRecord Log](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/SaimonL/repo-assets/master/customlogger/active_record.png)

#### New Line

If you want to add a gap in-between sets of outputs then this is what you are
looking for.

    CustomLogger.new_line

![New Line](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/SaimonL/repo-assets/master/customlogger/new_line.png)

#### Clear All Logs

    CustomLogger.clear

## Log File

You will find the log file in:

    log/customlogger.html


## Running Test On Gem (Not Rails App)

    bundle exec rake spec

## Contributing

1. Fork it ( https://github.com/SaimonL/CustomLogger/fork )
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b my-new-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -am 'Add some feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin my-new-feature`)
5. Create a new Pull Request

Commit message:

Added feature auto clean and optimize code. Removed unused assign logs rather then pass by refs. Fixed typos custome and detect nil for file and folder. Also colors are more visible.

README.md, after:

# Custom Logger

[![Gem Version](https://badge.fury.io/rb/customlogger.png)](http://badge.fury.io/rb/customlogger)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/SaimonL/CustomLogger.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/SaimonL/CustomLogger)

Custom logger allows you to log you're debug information to an html file so you can
view them in much more easier way. All you need to do is include the gem in the
Gemfile and then use it directly CustomLogger.

## Compatable

CustomLogger is compatible with Ruby 1.9 and above. As for Rails 3.x and up.
You should not be using or have Ruby 1.8 installed for obvious reasons.

## Installation

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

```ruby
group :development, :test do
  [...]
  gem 'customlogger'
  [...]
end
```
Keep in mind that "[...]" means that there may or may not be other gems there.

And then execute:

    $ bundle

Or install it yourself as:

    $ gem install customlogger

## Usage

Custom Logger is very easy to use. Just use the module 'CustomLogger' anywhere
and log the message in a nice friendly colorful html page view. All the logging
follows pattern of message input first followed by optional title. Take a look
at the examples below.

![Example Screenshot](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/SaimonL/repo-assets/master/customlogger/all.png)

#### Log error

    CustomLogger.error 'This is an error message'
    CustomLogger.error('This is an error message', 'Error Title')

![Error Screenshot](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/SaimonL/repo-assets/master/customlogger/error.png)

#### Log warning

    CustomLogger.warning 'This is a warning message'
    CustomLogger.warning('This is a warning message', 'Warning Title')

![Warning Screenshot](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/SaimonL/repo-assets/master/customlogger/warning.png)

#### Log debug

    CustomLogger.debug 'This is a debug message'
    CustomLogger.debug('This is a debug message', 'Debug Title')

![Debug Screenshot](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/SaimonL/repo-assets/master/customlogger/debug.png)

#### Log info

    CustomLogger.info 'This is an info message'
    CustomLogger.info('This is an info message', 'Info Title')

![Info Screenshot](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/SaimonL/repo-assets/master/customlogger/info.png)

#### Log raw

Keep in mind that raw means that no formatting is applied so if the output
is 1000 characters horizontal without any line break then that is what you
will see. Basically it is inside of a 'pre' html tag.

    CustomLogger.raw 'This is a raw message'
    CustomLogger.raw('This is a raw message', 'Raw Title')

![Raw Screenshot](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/SaimonL/repo-assets/master/customlogger/raw.png)

#### ActiveRecord Support

CustomLogger supports ActiveRecord if you use ActiveRecord. To log ActiveRecord
just use raw logger. For an example:

    CustomLogger.raw(User.first, 'This is User.first')

![ActiveRecord Log](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/SaimonL/repo-assets/master/customlogger/active_record.png)

#### New Line

If you want to add a gap in-between sets of outputs then this is what you are
looking for.

    CustomLogger.new_line

![New Line](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/SaimonL/repo-assets/master/customlogger/new_line.png)

#### Clear All Logs

To clear all logs that are there in the html file

    CustomLogger.clear

To auto clear all logs on EACH log

    CustomLogger.auto_clear = true

To disable auto clear all logs on EACH log (default)

    CustomLogger.auto_clear = true
    
## Log File

You will find the log file in:

    log/custom_logger.html


## Running Test On Gem (Not Rails App)

    bundle exec rake spec

## Contributing

1. Fork it ( https://github.com/SaimonL/CustomLogger/fork )
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b my-new-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -am 'Add some feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin my-new-feature`)
5. Create a new Pull Request
